sql-infra: add resource control feature (#12353)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md

---
title: CREATE RESOURCE GROUP
summary: Learn the usage of CREATE RESOURCE GROUP in TiDB.
---

# CREATE RESOURCE GROUP

> You can use the `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement to create a resource group in the currently selected database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement to create a resource group.
```

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
CreateResourceGroupStmt:
   "CREATE" "RESOURCE" "GROUP" IfNotExists ResourceGroupName ResourceGroupOptionList

IfNotExists ::=
    ('IF' 'NOT' 'EXISTS')?

ResourceGroupName:
   Identifier

ResourceGroupOptionList:
    DirectResourceGroupOption
|   ResourceGroupOptionList DirectResourceGroupOption
|   ResourceGroupOptionList ',' DirectResourceGroupOption

DirectResourceGroupOption:
    "RU_PER_SEC" EqOpt stringLit
|   "BURSTABLE"

```

> The resource group name parameter (`ResourceGroupName`) is globally unique and cannot be duplicated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resource group name parameter (`ResourceGroupName`) must be globally unique.
```

> TiDB supports the following `DirectResourceGroupOption`, where [Request Unit (RU)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) is TiDB's unified abstraction unit for CPU, IO, and other system resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB supports the following `DirectResourceGroupOption`, where [Request Unit (RU)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) is a unified abstraction unit in TiDB for CPU, IO, and other system resources.
```

| Option     | Description                         | Example                |
|---------------|-------------------------------------|------------------------|

> |`RU_PER_SEC`  | Rate of RU filling per second   |`RU_PER_SEC = 500` indicates that this resource group is backfilled with 500 RUs per second    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `RU_PER_SEC`  | Rate of RU backfilling per second   | `RU_PER_SEC = 500` indicates that this resource group is backfilled with 500 RUs per second    |
```

> If the `BURSTABLE` attribute is set, the corresponding resource group allows the system resources to be used exceeding the quota.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `BURSTABLE` attribute is set, TiDB allows the corresponding resource group to use the available system resources when the quota is exceeded.
```

> **Note:**
>
> The `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement can only be executed when the global variable [`tidb_enable_resource_group`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) is set to `ON`.

## Examples

Create two resource groups `rg1` and `rg2`.

```sql
mysql> DROP RESOURCE GROUP IF EXISTS rg1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.22 sec)
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1
    ->  RU_PER_SEC = 100
    ->  BURSTABLE;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2

>     ->  RU_PER_SEC = 200

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ->  RU_PER_SEC = 200;
```

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.resource_groups WHERE NAME ='rg1' or NAME = 'rg2';
+------+-------------+-----------+-----------+

> | NAME | RU_PER_SEC  | RU_TOKENS | BURSTABLE |

Reviewer 3: maybe RU_TOKENS is no need for now? the SQL syntax only set the rate. cc @CabinfeverB

Reviewer: already refreshed in Chinese version.

---
title: CREATE RESOURCE GROUP
summary: Learn the usage of CREATE RESOURCE GROUP in TiDB.
---

# CREATE RESOURCE GROUP

You can use the `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement to create a resource group in the currently selected database.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
CreateResourceGroupStmt:
   "CREATE" "RESOURCE" "GROUP" IfNotExists ResourceGroupName ResourceGroupOptionList BurstableOption

IfNotExists ::=
    ('IF' 'NOT' 'EXISTS')?

ResourceGroupName:
   Identifier

ResourceGroupOptionList:
    DirectResourceGroupOption
|   ResourceGroupOptionList DirectResourceGroupOption
|   ResourceGroupOptionList ',' DirectResourceGroupOption

DirectResourceGroupOption:
    "RRU_PER_SEC" EqOpt stringLit
|   "WRU_PER_SEC" EqOpt stringLit

BurstableOption ::=
    ("BURSTABLE")?

```

> The `ResourceGroupName` of a resource group is globally unique and cannot be duplicated.

Author: ```suggestion
The resource group name (`ResourceGroupName`) is globally unique and cannot be duplicated.
```

TiDB supports the following `DirectResourceGroupOption`, where [RU (Resource Unit)](/tidb-RU.md) is TiDB's unified abstraction unit for CPU, IO, and other system resources.

> | Parameter     | Description                         | Example                |

Author: ```suggestion
| Option     | Description                         | Example                |
```

|`RRU_PER_SEC`  | Quota of RU read per second         |`RRU_PER_SEC = 500`     |
|`WRU_PER_SEC`  | Quota of RU write per second        |`WRU_PER_SEC = 300`     |

If the `BURSTABLE` attribute is set, the corresponding resource group allows the system resources to be used exceeding the quota if the system resources are sufficient.

> **Note:**
>
> The `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement can only be executed when the global variable [`tidb_enable_resource_group`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) is set to `ON`.

## Examples

Create a resource group named `rg1`.

```sql
mysql> DROP RESOURCE GROUP IF EXISTS rg1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.22 sec)
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1
    ->  RRU_PER_SEC = 500
    ->  WRU_PER_SEC = 300
    ->  BURSTABLE
    -> ;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.resource_groups WHERE NAME ='rg1';
+------+--------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name | Plan_type    | Directive | 
+------+--------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+

> | rg1  |   tenancy    | {"RRU_PER_SEC": 5000, "WRU_PER_SEC": 1000, "BURSTABLE": true} |

Author: ```suggestion
| rg1  |   tenancy    | {"RRU_PER_SEC": 500, "WRU_PER_SEC": 300, "BURSTABLE": true} |
```

---
title: CREATE RESOURCE GROUP
summary: Learn the usage of CREATE RESOURCE GROUP in TiDB.
---

# CREATE RESOURCE GROUP

You can use the `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement to create a resource group in the currently selected database.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
CreateResourceGroupStmt:
   "CREATE" "RESOURCE" "GROUP" IfNotExists ResourceGroupName ResourceGroupOptionList BurstableOption

IfNotExists ::=
    ('IF' 'NOT' 'EXISTS')?

ResourceGroupName:
   Identifier

> ResourceGroupOptionList:

Reviewer: The problem is fixed by https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/41050

If the `BURSTABLE` attribute is set, the corresponding resource group allows the system resources to be used exceeding the quota.

> **Note:**
>
> The `CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` statement can only be executed when the global variable [`tidb_enable_resource_group`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) is set to `ON`.

## Examples

Create two resource groups `rg1` and `rg2`.

```sql
mysql> DROP RESOURCE GROUP IF EXISTS rg1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.22 sec)
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1
    ->  RU_PER_SEC = 100
    ->  BURSTABLE;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2
    ->  RU_PER_SEC = 200
    ->  BURSTABLE;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.resource_groups WHERE NAME ='rg1' or NAME = 'rg2';
+------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
| NAME | RU_PER_SEC  | RU_TOKENS | BURSTABLE |
+------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
| rg1  |         100 |    165135 | YES       |
| rg2  |         200 |    157158 | NO        |
+------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
2 rows in set (1.30 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

> MySQL also supports [CREATE RESOURCE GROUP](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/create-resource-group.html). However, the accepted parameters are different from TiDB so that they are not compatible.

Reviewer 4: Maybe also update `mysql-compatibility.md` with a note about this?

Reviewer: done

Author: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/12353/files#diff-c1aa7505383917a03762f5ffaf12ca9bf0186b7cb3666dd4e1b47c38752b3ed9
